SamurAI 3x3 Setting Files (2015-11-24)

This document describes the format of game setting information files
for SamurAI 3x3 game managemenet sytem.

There are three kinds of files in this directory.

One is setting files, that specify general setting of a game.  Second
is samurai database files, that specify program names and invocation
method for samurai player AI.  The last one is score database files
that contain score so far of samurai participating in a multi-game
tournament.

When you use the SamurAI 3x3 game manager, most parts of the setting
information files should be left as they are, but several items have
to be modified.  Items marked with <***> have to be edited to test
your AI players.  Items marked <**> might need some change depending
on your envoronment.

A sample setting should be found in the files "setting",
"samuraidb.txt", and "scoredb.txt" in the same directory.

1. Setting file

The setting file contains general game setting information to be read
in from the standard input by the SamurAI 3x3 game manager.

Usually, users do not have to change the contents of this file.

All the lines beginning from a sharp sign ("#") are comments.

1.1 Samurai Database Path <***>

The first non-comment line should have a string denoting the file path
to the samurai database.  Details of this file are found in a separate
section below.

1.2 Score Database Path <***>

Next comes a string denoting the file path to the score database.
Again, details are found in a separate section.

1.3 Game Name and Game Parameters

Next come overall game information.

First comes the game name string.  This may be used by the game
visualizer as the game name.

Then come 5 numbers giving, the total number of turns in the game,
time limit in milliseconds for the AI player programs, width and
height of the battlefield, and finally, the turns required for an
injured samurai to recover.

1.4 Number of Samurai in Armies

Then comes two numbers, which are numbers of samurai in each of the
army.  The current version of the game manager cannot handle but 3 for
both.

1.5 Samurai Info

Finally, information on 6 samurai is given.  The following are given
for each of the six samurai.

First comes the information on occupied secions at an occupy action.
The first number is the number of sections occupied, and the
coordinates of the occupied sections, relative to the position of the
samurai, follow.

Then comes visiual ability, that specifies the Manhattan distance
from the samurai's position within which information of the
battlefield sections is obtained.

Next comes activity budget.  The total of costs of actions in one turn
should not exceed this value.

Next comes two numbers specifying the home position of the samurai.

2. Samurai Database File <***>

Samurai database file describes the samurai names, their player AI
program paths, and how to invoke them.

All the lines beginning from a sharp sign ("#") are comments in this
file, too.

First comes the number of samurai, which is usually 6.

Then comes a string of the path to the directory where player AI
program files are stored.

Finally, comes information on all samurai, described as three
strings.

The first string is the name of the samurai, which may be used by the
visualizer.

The next string is the name of the AI program for the samurai.

The final string specifies how the program is invoked.  The sequence
"$1" in the string is substituted by the path to the program, that is,
if the directory path is "player", the player program file name is
"musashi", and the invocation string is simply "$1", the program will
be invoked by a command "player/musashi".  Thus, if the program is
stored as an executable, this invocation string is simply "$1".  If
the AI program is a Java program compiled into "Musashi.class", then
the program name and invocation string may be "Musashi" and "java $1".

3. Score Database File

Score database files are records for scores so far in a multi-game
tounament of each samurai.  It has six numbers, which are the total
scores of six samurai participating in the game.
